Astro / Airflow glossary (#2461)
astronomer/docs: astro/astro-glossary.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Glossary'
title: 'Astro glossary'
id: astro-glossary
description: A quick reference for terms you'll encounter on Astro.
---
The following table contains definitions for all of the key terms and concepts you'll come across on Astro. For a glossary of Apache Airflow terms, see [Airflow glossary](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/airflow-glossary).

| Term | Definition |
|------|-------------|

> | API key | An API key is a unique key ID and secret grants programmatic access to a Deployment. API keys will soon be deprecated in favor of Deployment-level API tokens. |

Author: @paolaperaza so why not `at the Workspace or Organization level` ?

> | API token | An API token is an alphanumeric token that grants programmatic access to Astro. An API token can be scoped to a [Organization](organization-api-tokens.md) or [Workspace](workspace-api-tokens.md). |

Reviewer: Hm the switch to "you can" here loses some of the specific definition, which is that the token is scoped to a specific entity. We already say it automates actions in the first sentence to some degree

> | API token | An API token is an alphanumeric token that grants programmatic access to Astro. An API token can be scoped to a [Organization](organization-api-tokens.md) or [Workspace](workspace-api-tokens.md). |

Author: ```suggestion
| API token | An API token is an alphanumeric token that grants programmatic access to Astro. It can be used to automate management of [Organization](organization-api-tokens.md) or [Workspace](workspace-api-tokens.md) using Astro CLI. |
```

Author: @paolaperaza @jwitz how about this way ? ^^

Reviewer: Check my reply to Paola's to see if that works?

> | API token | An API token is an alphanumeric token that grants programmatic access to Astro. An API token can be scoped to a [Organization](organization-api-tokens.md) or [Workspace](workspace-api-tokens.md). |

Reviewer: I would just limit the usage to the first sentence: "An API token is an alphanumeric token grants programmatic access to Astro for automated workflows. An API token can be scoped to a [Organization](organization-api-tokens.md) or [Workspace](workspace-api-tokens.md)"

> | Astro | [Astro](https://www.astronomer.io/product/) is a SaaS application that runs fully-managed Apache Airflow environments in the cloud. Each Airflow environment runs in its own isolated Kubernetes namespace with the ability to scale up or down based on the number of tasks queued or running. |

Reviewer: Agreed with @manmeetkaur here. This might be the copy we want to share when advertising Astro, but it doesn't do much as a definition and definitely sticks out amongst the other terms here. We should be explicit about what exactly Astro is, which the first definition is closer to achieving.

> | Astro | [Astro](https://www.astronomer.io/product/) is a SaaS application that runs fully-managed Apache Airflow environments in the cloud. Each Airflow environment runs in its own isolated Kubernetes namespace with the ability to scale up or down based on the number of tasks queued or running. |

Reviewer: Astro is a cloud-based SaaS application that provides fully managed Apache Airflow environments for teams of all sizes. To get started, [start a trial](https://www.astronomer.io/try-astro/).

> | Astro alerts | [Astro alerts](alerts.md) are customizable Slack and Pagerduty alerts for Deployments running on Astro. Unlike Airflow alerts, Astro alerts are configured directly from the Cloud UI and require no changes to DAG code. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Astro alerts | [Astro alerts](alerts.md) are customizable alerts for Deployments running on Astro. Unlike Airflow alerts, Astro alerts are configured directly from the Cloud UI and require no changes to DAG code. |
```
We are about to add email alerts. To future proof this definition, let's remove references to specific integrations.

> | Astro alerts | [Astro alerts](alerts.md) are customizable Slack and Pagerduty alerts for Deployments running on Astro. Unlike Airflow alerts, Astro alerts are configured directly from the Cloud UI and require no changes to DAG code. |

Reviewer: Updated with my preferred wording, p sure I didn't take out any specific content or points from the original edit

> | Astro CLI | The [Astro CLI](cli/overview.md) is an open source command line interface used to run Airflow locally and manage various resources on Astro. |

Reviewer: What is "built by Astronomer for Apache Airflow" mean here that isn't already addressed by "used to run Airflow locally"?

> | Astro Hosted | [Astro Hosted](astro-architecture.md) is a version of Astro that's hosted and managed in Astronomer's cloud. |

Reviewer: I'd prefer:

```
| Astro Hosted | [Astro Hosted](astro-architecture.md) is a product line for Astro where the infrastructure required to run Airflow is fully managed by Astronomer in Astronomer's cloud. It is recommended for most teams running Airflow. |
```

> | Astro Hosted | [Astro Hosted](astro-architecture.md) is a version of Astro that's hosted and managed in Astronomer's cloud. |

Reviewer: It's not a "product line" if it's only one product right?

> | Astro Hosted | [Astro Hosted](astro-architecture.md) is a version of Astro that's hosted and managed in Astronomer's cloud. |

Reviewer: I thought the "Product line" is Astro/ Astronomer, with the "products" being the variations you listed. In the same way that "Honda" is the product line for "Civic/ Accord/ HR-V"

> | Astro Hybrid | [Astro Hybrid](hybrid-overview.md) is a version of Astro that's managed by Astronomer and hosted in the customer's cloud. |

Reviewer: I'd prefer

| Astro Hybrid | [Astro Hybrid](hybrid-overview.md) is a distribution of Astro where the infrastructure required to run Airflow is fully managed by Astronomer and hosted in your organization's cloud. It is recommended for security-conscious teams running at scale. |

> | Astro project | An [Astro project](develop-project.md) contains the set of files necessary to run Airflow, including dedicated folders for the DAG files, plugins, and dependencies. A new Astro project can be created by running `astro dev init` with the Astro CLI. Each Deployment hosts exactly one Astro project. |

Reviewer: I updated this to cut the last sentence

> | Astro project | An [Astro project](develop-project.md) contains the set of files necessary to run Airflow, including dedicated folders for the DAG files, plugins, and dependencies. A new Astro project can be created by running `astro dev init` with the Astro CLI. Each Deployment hosts exactly one Astro project. |

Author: edited to include Astro CLI link

> | Astro Runtime | [Astro Runtime](runtime-image-architecture.md) is an Astronomer-distributed Docker image for running Airflow. Compared to the Apache Airflow Docker image, Astro Runtime additionally includes smart default environment variables and packages, a security manager for RBAC, and expedited vulnerability fixes. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Astro Runtime | [Astro Runtime](runtime-image-architecture.md) is a Docker image for running Airflow that's built and maintained by Astronomer. Every Astro project and Deployment is configured with a version of Astro Runtime. Compared to the Apache Airflow Docker image, Astro Runtime additionally includes smart Airflow configurations, pre-installed packages, a security manager for role-based access control (RBAC), and expedited vulnerability fixes. |
```

> | Astronomer Software | [Astronomer Software](https://docs.astronomer.io/software) is a product for running Apache Airflow in a private cloud or airgapped environment using Kubernetes. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Astronomer Software | [Astronomer Software](https://docs.astronomer.io/software) is Astronomer's commercial software offering for running Apache Airflow on Kubernetes in a private cloud or airgapped environment. The infrastructure required to run the service is hosted and managed entirely by your organization instead of by Astronomer. It is only recommended for extremely security conscious organizations running at a unique level of scale. |
```

> | Cell | A [cell](cloud-ide/quickstart.md#step-3-create-a-python-cell) is a UI-based abstraction of an Airflow task that serves as the building block for Astro Cloud IDE pipelines. It can either complete a unit of work or host an asset to be used by other cells. |

Reviewer: Updated suggestion

| Cloud UI | The Cloud UI is the user interface for accessing Astro. From the Cloud UI, users can manage Organizations, Workspaces, and Deployments, as well as develop pipelines in the Astro Cloud IDE. The Cloud UI is available at `https://cloud.astronomer.io`. |

> | Cluster | An Astro cluster is a fully managed Kubernetes cluster that runs Deployments either in a customer's cloud or Astronomer's cloud. |

Author: updated suggestion to include links.

> | Cluster | An Astro cluster is a fully managed Kubernetes cluster that runs Deployments either in a customer's cloud or Astronomer's cloud. |

Reviewer: I dont think second sentence ( Clusters run on AWS, GCP, or Azure and are fully managed by Astronomer. ) is true for Hosted. I also think "that hosts the infrastructure required to run Airflow on Astro." sounds identical to a Deployment.

> | Cluster | An Astro cluster is a fully managed Kubernetes cluster that runs Deployments either in a customer's cloud or Astronomer's cloud. |

Reviewer: Updated the wording

| Dedicated Cluster | A [dedicated cluster](create-dedicated-cluster.md) is a cluster type available on Astro Hosted. It is hosted on Astronomer's cloud and runs Deployments only from a single Organization.  |
| Control Plane | The Astro control plane is Astro's interface for managing Airflow environments running in the cloud. The Cloud UI or the Astro CLI is used to interact with the control plane. It provides end-to-end visibility, control, and management of users, teams, Workspaces, Deployments, metrics, and logs.|

> | DAG Bundle Version | A DAG Bundle Version is a unique timestamp generated by the Astro CLI after a user completes a DAG-only deploy. This value exists only when [DAG-only deploys](deploy-code#deploy-dags-only) are enabled for a Deployment. |

Author: ```suggestion
| DAG Bundle Version | A DAG Bundle Version is a unique timestamp generated by the Astro CLI after a user completes a DAG-only deploy. This value exists only when [DAG-only deploys](deploy-code.md#deploy-dags-only) are enabled for a Deployment. |
```

> | DAG Bundle Version | A DAG Bundle Version is a unique timestamp generated by the Astro CLI after a user completes a DAG-only deploy. This value exists only when [DAG-only deploys](deploy-code.md#deploy-dags-only) are enabled for a Deployment. |

Author: does the user need to know it is used "to identify the version of code that runs on Astro"

> | DAG Bundle Version | A DAG Bundle Version is a unique timestamp generated by the Astro CLI after a user completes a DAG-only deploy. This value exists only when [DAG-only deploys](deploy-code.md#deploy-dags-only) are enabled for a Deployment. |

Reviewer: Updated suggestion slightly

| Data lineage | [Data lineage](data-lineage-concepts.md) is the concept of tracking and observing data flowing through a data pipeline. Data lineage can be used to understand data sources, troubleshoot run failures, manage personally identifiable information (PII), and ensure compliance with data regulations. Astro includes data lineage features in the Cloud UI.  |

> | Data plane | The data plane, a component of [Astro Hybrid](hybrid-overview.md), is a single-tenant foundation in a customer's cloud for running multiple Airflow environments across clusters. A data plane can be multi-cloud and multi-region. |

Author: The data plane is a component of Astro Hybrid that refers to the infrastructure used to run multiple Airflow environments in customer's cloud. Different clouds and different regions can be part of the same Data plane. @jwitz @paolaperaza Thoughts ?

> | Deploy | A [deploy](deploy-code.md) is the process of pushing either an Astro project or DAG code to an Astro Deployment. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Deploy | A [deploy](deploy-code.md) is the process of pushing  code to a Deployment on Astro. You can either deploy all files in your Astro project or just your DAG code.
```

- Not sure there's a better way to say it but it's "a code push" not "the process" right?

Reviewer: Updated slightly

> | Data plane | The data plane, a component of [Astro Hybrid](hybrid-overview.md), is a single-tenant foundation in a customer's cloud for running multiple Airflow environments across clusters. A data plane can be multi-cloud and multi-region. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Data plane | The data plane is a component of [Astro Hybrid](hybrid-overview.md). It is a single-tenant foundation in a customer's cloud that runs multiple Airflow environments across clusters, regions, and clouds. |
```

> | Deployment | An [Astro Deployment](create-deployment.md) is an Airflow environment that is powered by all core Airflow components, including a webserver, scheduler, triggerer, and one or more workers running in its own isolated namespace in a cluster. Astro users can deploy DAGs to a Deployment, and can have one or more Deployments within a Workspace. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Deployment | An [Astro Deployment](create-deployment.md) is an Airflow environment that is powered by all core Airflow components, including schedulers and workers. Astro users can deploy DAGs to a Deployment, and can have one or more Deployments within a Workspace. |
```

Reviewer 2: I think we can simplify this one and not mention the namespace thing? Esp with Hosted, I think it's fine to leave out

> | Environment variable| An [environment variable](environment-variables.md) is a key-value pair that defines a configuration for a Deployment.  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Environment variable| An [environment variable](environment-variables.md) is a key-value pair that you can create in the Cloud UI and defines a configuration for a Deployment. You can use environment variables to set Airflow configurations.|
```

Reviewer: I think both of these additions are not really needed given how many other ways you can create them/ how many other things they can define. This feels unnecessarily limiting, so I'd rather keep it open-ended and let the docs explain more.

> | High availability (HA) | [High availability (HA)](configure-deployment-resources#enable-high-availability) is a feature on Astro for ensuring that Deployments can run even in the event of an outage. On Astro Hosted, HA can be enabled or disabled per Deployment. |

Author: ```suggestion
| High availability (HA) | [High availability (HA)](configure-deployment-resources.md#enable-high-availability) is a feature on Astro for ensuring that Deployments can run even in the event of an outage. On Astro Hosted, HA can be enabled or disabled per Deployment. |
```

> | High availability (HA) | [High availability (HA)](configure-deployment-resources.md#enable-high-availability) is a feature on Astro for ensuring that Deployments can run even in the event of an outage. On Astro Hosted, HA can be enabled or disabled per Deployment. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| High availability (HA) | [High availability (HA)](configure-deployment-resources.md#enable-high-availability) is a feature on Astro for ensuring that the components of a Deployment continue to run even in the event of an outage. On Astro Hosted, HA can be enabled or disabled per Deployment. |
```

> | Environment variable| An [environment variable](environment-variables.md) is a key-value pair that defines a configuration for a Deployment.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Environment variable| An [environment variable](environment-variables.md) is a key-value pair that defines a configuration or value for a Deployment.  |
```

| Namespace | A [namespace](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/) is a Kubernetes component which isolates Airflow environments within a Kubernetes cluster. Each Deployment uses a separate namespace to isolate resources. |
| Organization | An Organization is the highest management level on Astro. An Organization contains Workspaces, which are collections of Deployments, or Airflow environments, that are typically owned by a single team.  |
| Pipeline | A [pipeline](cloud-ide/quickstart.md#step-2-create-a-pipeline) is a notebook-style configuration for DAGs which is available in the Astro Cloud IDE. A pipeline can include traditional Airflow operators, as well as Python and SQL functions that are executed through the Astro Python SDK. |
| Standard cluster | A [standard cluster](resource-reference-hosted.md#standard-cluster-configurations) is a cluster type available on Astro Hosted. It is multi-tenant and runs Deployments from multiple Organizations. |
| Worker Node | A [worker node](resource-reference-hosted.md#worker-type) is a node used to run Airflow worker Pods, which are responsible for executing Airflow tasks in the Deployments. |

> | Worker Node Pool | A [worker node pool](manage-hybrid-clusters#about-worker-node-pools) is a Kubernetes node pool that's used to run worker nodes of the same type on Astro Hybrid. Each worker node pool has a worker type and a maximum node count.  |

Author: ```suggestion
| Worker Node Pool | A [worker node pool](manage-hybrid-clusters.md#about-worker-node-pools) is a Kubernetes node pool that's used to run worker nodes of the same type on Astro Hybrid. Each worker node pool has a worker type and a maximum node count.  |
```

> | Worker Queue | A [worker queue](configure-worker-queues.md) is a set of configurations that apply to a group of workers in a Deployment running the Celery executor. Within a worker queue, users can configure worker type, worker size, and autoscaling behavior.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Worker Queue | A [worker queue](configure-worker-queues.md) is a set of configurations that apply to a group of workers in a Deployment running the Celery executor. Within a worker queue, you can configure worker type, worker size, and autoscaling behavior.|
```

---
sidebar_label: 'Glossary'
title: 'Astro glossary'
id: astro-glossary
description: A quick reference for terms you'll encounter on Astro.
---
The following table contains definitions for all of the key terms and concepts you'll come across on Astro. For a glossary of Apache Airflow terms, see [Airflow glossary](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/airflow-glossary).

> 
> ## Astro glossary table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| Astro Runtime | [Astro Runtime](runtime-image-architecture.md) is an Astronomer-distributed Docker image for running Airflow. Compared to the Apache Airflow Docker image, Astro Runtime additionally includes smart default environment variables and packages, a security manager for RBAC, and expedited vulnerability fixes. |
| Astronomer Software | [Astronomer Software](https://docs.astronomer.io/software) is a product for running Apache Airflow in a private cloud or airgapped environment using Kubernetes. |
| Cell | A [cell](cloud-ide/quickstart.md#step-3-create-a-python-cell) is a UI-based abstraction of an Airflow task that serves as the building block for Astro Cloud IDE pipelines. It can either complete a unit of work or host an asset to be used by other cells. |
| Cloud UI | The Cloud UI is the user interface for accessing Astro. From the Cloud UI, users can manage Organizations, Workspaces, and Deployments, as well as develop pipelines in the Astro Cloud IDE. The Cloud UI is available at `https://cloud.astronomer.io`. |
| Cluster | An Astro cluster is a fully managed Kubernetes cluster that runs Deployments either in a customer's cloud or Astronomer's cloud. |

> | Dedicated Cluster | A [dedicated cluster](create-dedicated-cluster.md) are a cluster type available on Astro Hosted. They are hosted on Astronomer's cloud and run Deployments only from a single Organization.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Dedicated Cluster | A [dedicated cluster](create-dedicated-cluster.md) is a cluster type available on Astro Hosted. A dedicated cluster is hosted on Astronomer's cloud and runs Deployments only from a single Organization.  |
```

| DAG Bundle Version | A DAG Bundle Version is a unique timestamp generated by the Astro CLI after a user completes a DAG-only deploy. This value exists only when [DAG-only deploys](deploy-code#deploy-dags-only) are enabled for a Deployment. |
| Data lineage | [Data lineage](data-lineage-concepts.md) is the concept of tracking and observing data flowing through a data pipeline. Data lineage can be used to understand data sources, troubleshoot run failures, manage personally identifiable information (PII), and ensure compliance with data regulations. Astro includes data lineage features in the Cloud UI.  |
| Data plane | The data plane, a component of [Astro Hybrid](hybrid-overview.md), is a single-tenant foundation in a customer's cloud for running multiple Airflow environments across clusters. A data plane can be multi-cloud and multi-region. |
| Deploy | A [deploy](deploy-code.md) is the process of pushing either an Astro project or DAG code to an Astro Deployment. |

> | Deployment | An [Astro Deployment](create-deployment.md) is an Airlfow environment that is powered by all core Airflow components, including a webserver, scheduler, triggerer, and one or more workers running in its own isolated namespace in a cluster. Astro users can deploy DAGs to a Deployment, and can have one or more Deployments within a Workspace. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Deployment | An [Astro Deployment](create-deployment.md) is an Airflow environment that is powered by all core Airflow components, including a webserver, scheduler, triggerer, and one or more workers running in its own isolated namespace in a cluster. Astro users can deploy DAGs to a Deployment, and can have one or more Deployments within a Workspace. |
```
